At Matthew 13:52,
Jesus said that “every public instructor”
was like a man with a “treasure store”
filled with truths, old and new.
Well, we know that’s true.
And if it’s true,
it means that this audience
is among the most rich people
in the entire world.
You have a large ‘treasure store
of truths both old and new.’
But here’s the question,
What will you do with your treasure store?
Now, at Deuteronomy 29:29,
Moses gave these words;
he said: “The things concealed
belong to Jehovah our God,
“but the things revealed belong to us
“and [and]
“to our descendants forever,
“so that we may carry out all the words
of this Law.”
Well, there’s a fundamental truth there.
You see, the truth
never solely belongs to us.
But, rather,
it also belongs to our descendants
—to all of our sons and daughters
who are to come.
Well, that means
that as men and women of faith,
we have a clear responsibility
to share
(to pass on)
the wonderful truths
that we have come to know
with the next generation.
Well, the Bible emphasizes this.
Let’s read what the psalmist said
in Psalm 78:3.
Psalm 78:3 says:
“The things we have heard and know,
“which our fathers have related to us,
“we will not hide from their sons;
“we will relate to the generation to come
“the praiseworthy deeds of Jehovah
and his strength,
the wonderful things he has done.”
Well, now this includes
more than just the basic truths.
It also includes all of the wonderful things
that we’ve been taught
by other brothers and sisters,
all the experiences that we’ve had,
and experiencing
the hand of Jehovah in our own lives.
Well, Jehovah took the matter
of passing this on
to the next generation very seriously,
because look at what it says in verse 5.
It says: “He established a reminder in Jacob
“and set a law in Israel;
“He commanded our forefathers
“to make these things
known to their children,
“so that the next generation,
“the children yet to be born,
might know them.
They in turn
would relate them to their children.”
Well, brothers and sisters,
especially those of you
who have so much wisdom and experience,
do you feel that responsibility to share
what you have with the generations to come?
Well, if we get the sense
of Deuteronomy 29:29
and Psalm 78,
well then, we will do this.
We will share what we have
with the next generation.
But how do we do it?
Well, of course, this process begins
with all of our parents,
by their following the command
in Deuteronomy 6:6, 7
to teach their children
as ‘they sit in the house,
as they walk on the road,
when they lie down, and when they get up.’
But the process does not end
with the Christian parents.
We also have a responsibility
to teach and train young adults
so that they can take on responsibility
in Jehovah’s congregation.
Now, the Bible is filled
with examples of individuals
who are wonderful trainers.
Maybe one who comes to mind
right away is Moses.
It seems that in the Bible,
whenever you see Moses, you see Joshua.
They’re always together.
Can you imagine the wonderful training
that Moses was able to impart to Joshua
as they worked together
for more than 40 years?
Moses not only told Joshua
but also he showed him.
And by being with him,
he was able to observe his fine example.
Well, when the time was ready,
when Moses was ready
to hand over the responsibility,
notice what he says here
at Deuteronomy chapter 31
and verse 7.
It says: “Moses then called Joshua
“and said to him
before the eyes of all Israel:
‘‘‘Be courageous and strong,
‘‘‘for you are the one
who will bring this people
‘‘‘into the land that Jehovah
swore to their forefathers to give to them,
‘‘‘and you will give it to them
as an inheritance.
‘‘‘Jehovah is the one marching before you,
‘‘‘and he will continue with you.
‘‘‘He will neither desert you
nor abandon you.
Do not be afraid or be terrified.’”
Well, can you imagine
how Moses must have felt
to say those words to this young man
whom he had worked so hard
all of these years with?
Well, that’s not the only example
that is in the Scriptures.
What about Paul and Timothy?
We know that Timothy
was probably in his late teens or early 20’s
when Paul met him at Lystra.
What did Paul do?
He took that young man
along with him on his tours,
going from congregation to congregation.
He put him in the mind of his methods.
He taught him.
And as a result, Timothy came to be
a solid, mature Christian man
who was able to strengthen
the congregations of God’s people.
Do you remember what Paul said about him
in Philippians chapter 2?
It’s quite a recommendation.
At Philippians 2:20,
Paul said:
“For I have no one else
of a disposition like his
who will genuinely care for your concerns.”
What a tremendous recommendation!
But because Paul had invested
that time into Timothy,
he knew the fine qualities
that young man had.
Well, Paul not only wanted Timothy
to take that training himself
but you’ll recall that in 2 Timothy chapter 2
he gave advice to Timothy
as to what he was to do
with all of that fine training
that he had received.
At 2 Timothy 2:2, Paul said:
“And the things you heard from me
“that were supported by many witnesses,
“these things entrust to faithful men,
“who, in turn, will be adequately qualified
to teach others.”
So that training
would go on to future brothers
and future generations
of servants of Jehovah.
Paul invested training in a very young man,
and it paid off.
In our modern day,
I think of Brother Nathan Knorr
as an outstanding trainer.
When he became the president
of the Watch Tower Society
in January of 1942,
he was only 36 years old.
Now he could have thought: ‘I’m so young.
‘I have a huge—
‘I have many, many years ahead of me
to be able to care for matters.
And so there really isn’t
any need to train others.’
But Brother Knorr
did not have that disposition.
He was a trainer even at that young age.
He assigned Brother Milton Henschel,
who was in his mid-20’s,
to be his secretary.
Brother Knorr took Brother Henschel with him
on his travels all over the world
to branches and missionary homes
to strengthen the brothers.
He had him right by his side
at major conventions,
not just telling him
but showing him how to take the lead.
And Brother Henschel absorbed that training.
By 1947, he was a member
of the board of directors
of the Watch Tower Society
at only 27 years old.
And he went on to serve
as a member of the Governing Body.
Brother Knorr trained
other young brothers like Don Adams.
This photo that we’re about to show
was taken at a gathering
on Brother Adams’ 70th anniversary
in full-time service.
Now, here you see
another group of young men
that Brother Knorr had trained
—Robert Wallen, Charles Molohan,
David Sinclair, and Don Adams.
All of these men were identified
when they were very young,
and they worked together
for more than 50 years faithfully.
Jehovah helped Brother Knorr
to choose very well.
But it didn’t end there.
Brother Knorr also appointed
well-qualified young brothers
who were Gilead graduates
to assignments with great responsibility.
For example,
Brother Kenneth Little was assigned
to be the branch servant in Canada
when he was 34 years old.
Brother Denton Hopkinson
was assigned as the branch servant
in the Philippines
when he was 33 years old,
and Brother Richard Kelsey
was assigned
as the branch servant in Germany
when he was 38.
When appointed, Brother Kelsey
said to Brother Knorr, “But I’m only 38.”
And Brother Knorr said,
“Well, yeah, that’s about the age I was
when I became president.”
Brother Knorr once again had chosen well.
Those last three brothers
are all still serving
on the branch committees
in their respective lands and are all members
of the Watch Tower Bible
and Tract Society of Pennsylvania
who are tied in today for this meeting.
Isn’t that wonderful?
But there’s a lesson here, brothers.
There’s a lesson:
Brother Knorr expressed confidence
in humble young brothers.
He allowed them to take on responsibility,
and that proved to be a wonderful blessing
for Jehovah’s people.
Well, what’s the lesson, then, for elders,
for circuit overseers,
for branch committee members
—really, for all mature brothers
in the congregation?
We must actively be training and teaching
the next generation of ministerial servants,
the next generation of elders,
the next generation of circuit overseers.
And we must take
this responsibility seriously
because the truth belongs not just to us.
It also belongs to our sons,
to our descendants.
We must pass on the truth, the wisdom,
the experience that we have
in our treasure store
to these next “Joshuas,”
these next “Timothys”
that Jehovah will raise up.
But now, that’s the role of the trainers.
What is the role of you younger brothers
who are listening to this program?
Well, it’s your responsibility to work hard
to meet the Scriptural qualifications
for ministerial servants
and later for elders.
Seek out training.
Ask for advice.
Ask for counsel.
Be eager to learn from older brothers
who are rich in wisdom and experience.
Now, to help you grow,
those brothers may give you some counsel.
They may even correct you from time to time.
Will you love them for doing that?
Like Jacob, who wrestled with an angel
to receive a blessing,
you too may have to wrestle.
You may have to struggle at times
to get that blessing, to reach that goal.
But if you work hard
and if you look to Jehovah for his help,
you will grow spiritually.
You will draw close to him.
And who knows
what responsibilities may come to you?
What is the Governing Body doing
to support efforts to train young brothers?
Well, in January of this year,
the Governing Body requested
all bodies of elders worldwide
to give priority
to helping younger brothers
grow in their relationship
with Jehovah
and to qualify
for congregation responsibilities.
Elders and circuit overseers
were reminded
that young brothers
who apply themselves
may qualify as ministerial servants
in their late teens
and that an exceptional ministerial servant
who has gained experience
in shepherding and teaching
could serve as an elder in his early 20’s.
Now, here’s another arrangement
that we have not publicly announced before,
but we will today.
Circuit overseers have also been informed
that they may invite qualified young brothers
between the ages of 21 and 23
to apply to attend
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Please don’t all call
your circuit overseer at once.
But the efforts do not end there.
Jehovah willing, in January 2023,
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
will again begin functioning
in person worldwide.
And as we resume
in-person regional conventions,
just imagine the joy that we’ll have
in seeing younger brothers get up
and give their first talk
at a regional convention.
Won’t that be wonderful?
Are you looking forward to it?
But the Governing Body
has another new initiative.
Governing Body members
will now have the possibility
to take a younger brother along with them
when they make
shepherding visits to the branches,
and appointed Governing Body helpers
who are headquarters representatives
will also be allowed
to take a younger brother with them
when they make their branch visits.
These arrangements will allow many brothers
to receive additional training
directly from Governing Body members
and helpers.
Well, what have we discussed
in this brief talk?
Jehovah has allowed us to know the truth.
He’s allowed us to be trained.
He’s allowed us
to gain wisdom and experience
from other experienced brothers and sisters.
What now is our responsibility?
Well, let’s read it in Psalm 71,
because the psalmist put it
so beautifully here
at Psalm 71:17:
“O God, you have taught me from my youth,
“and until now I keep declaring
“your wonderful works.
“Even when I am old and gray,
O God, do not abandon me.
“Let me tell the next generation
“about your power and about your mightiness
to all those who are to come.”
Dear brothers, please let us work hard
to share the wonderful truths,
the experience, the wisdom
that we have gained
with the generation to come.